# OpenConfig

[**OpenConfig**](http://www.openconfig.net) is a collaborative effort by network operators to develop programmatic interfaces and tools for managing networks in a dynamic, vendor-neutral way.  OpenConfig’s initial focus is on compiling a consistent set of vendor-neutral data models (written in [YANG](http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6020/))  based on actual operational needs from use cases and requirements from multiple network operators.


This repository contains published OpenConfig models, documentation, and other material for the community.

## Models

Published version of OpenConfig modules can be found in the ```release/modules``` directory. The current released model set is:

 * `bgp` - covering configuration and state relating to Border Gateway Protocol (BGP), including multi-protocol extensions. The `openconfig-bgp-policy` module provides augmentations to the OpenConfig routing policy framework to allow policies to utilise BGP-specific routing attributes.
 * `interfaces` - which provides configuration and state for physical and logical device interfaces and associated IP addressing. Extension modules provide configuration for aggregate interfaces (`openconfig-if-aggregate`) and Ethernet-specific interface parameters (`openconfig-if-ethernet`).
 * `local-routing` - allowing interaction with the configuration and operational state relating to static and aggregate routes which are generated by a device locally.
 * `optical-transport` - providing a configuration and state model for terminal optical devices within a DWDM system, including both client- and line-side parameters.
 * `policy` - a framework for routing policies to be expressed allowing matching of particular routing elements or sets, and actions to be performed on them. Other models may augment this model to add protocol-specific types, and reference policies defined within it.
 * `rib` - a data model representing the BGP-4 routing information base (RIB) contents. Extensions to the 'base' RIB model adding additional data elements of operational use are defined in `openconfig-rib-bgp-ext`.
 * `telemetry` - describing state and configuration parameters relating to a device's ability to stream telemetry information to a network management system.
 * `vlan` - a model allowing the configuration and state retrieval of parameters corresponding to 802.1Q VLANs on a device - including the creation of routed interfaces corresponding to those VLANs.

Generic type definitions which OpenConfig utilises can be found in the `openconfig-types` module.