README.md, before:

# OpenConfig

[**OpenConfig**](http://www.openconfig.net) is a collaborative effort by network
operators to develop programmatic interfaces and tools for managing networks in
a dynamic, vendor-neutral way.  OpenConfig’s initial focus is on compiling a
consistent set of vendor-neutral data models (written in
[YANG](http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6020/)) based on actual operational
needs from use cases and requirements from multiple network operators.

## Contributing to OpenConfig

This repository is primarily for publishing the models, documents, and other
material developed by the OpenConfig operators group.

**We generally do not accept pull requests in this repository**.

Feedback and suggestions to improve OpenConfig models is welcomed on the
[public mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/netopenconfig),
or by opening a GitHub [issue](https://github.com/openconfig/public/issues).

## Joining OpenConfig

Please see the [OpenConfig web site](http://www.openconfig.net) for information
for operators wishing to join OpenConfig, in particular the
[FAQ for operators](http://openconfig.net/docs/faq-for-operators/).

Commit message:

Updates to main README.
  * (M) README.md
    - Added reference to information for contributors.

README.md, after:

# OpenConfig

[**OpenConfig**](http://www.openconfig.net) is a collaborative effort by network
operators to develop programmatic interfaces and tools for managing networks in
a dynamic, vendor-neutral way.  OpenConfig’s initial focus is on compiling a
consistent set of vendor-neutral data models (written in
[YANG](http://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc6020/)) based on actual operational
needs from use cases and requirements from multiple network operators.

## Contributing to OpenConfig

This repository is primarily for publishing the models, documents, and other
material developed by the OpenConfig operators group.

For information about how to contribute to OpenConfig models, please
see [External Submissions to OpenConfig](doc/external-contributions-guide.md).

Feedback and suggestions to improve OpenConfig models is welcomed on the
[public mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/netopenconfig),
or by opening a GitHub [issue](https://github.com/openconfig/public/issues).

## Joining OpenConfig

Please see the [OpenConfig web site](http://www.openconfig.net) for information
for operators wishing to join OpenConfig, in particular the
[FAQ for operators](http://openconfig.net/docs/faq-for-operators/).
